
What is MongoDB
   Mongodb is cross-platform, ducument oriented batabase that
   provides, high performance high availibility and easy scalability

MongoDB works on concept of collection and document.

It's support the basic and advanced concept of sql

MongoDB is open-source dababase management system

It is designed to work with commodity servers.
so it is acceptable all to types of industris.

Advantages of mongodb over RDBMS
   -> Schema less
   -> No complex join
   -> Easy to Scale-out

Why we use mongoDB

   Document oriented storage
   Auto sharding
   Fast in place updates

Where we can use mongoDB
   Big Data
   Content management and delivery

MongoDB features
   - Ad-hoc queries
   - Aggregation
   - Schema-less database
   - GridFS
   - Document Oriented
   - Sharding
   - Indexing
   - Hight Performance
   - Replication

   Ad-Hoc queries
      Ad-Hoc queries are those type of queries which are
      not known while structuring the database
      MongoDB supports are type of queries. These queries
      can also be updated in realtime

   Aggregation
      MongoDB has aggregation framwork. We can batch the 
      process the data and get single result after doing 
      some sequence of tasks on group of data

   Schema-less database
      In this case different document can have different
      fields. The size, content, type may vary for different field.
      So there is a flexiblity in dealing with data

   GridFS
      GridFS is a framwork to store and access large set of data.
      It divides the data into chunk and store them into 
      different documents.


   Document Oriented
      MongoDB is document oriented database. there are
      different documents to store different types of data.
      Each document has unique system generated key


   Sharding
      For large set of data we need the sharding mechanism.
      It helps to distrubute large problematic data into
      some mongoDB instances.
      Sharding is a type of database partitioning that
      separates very large database the into smaller
      faster more easily managed parts called data
      shards

   Indexing
     Indexing in one of the important option to improve
     the search query performances. So we should index
     those fields which are matched with our searching
     criteria

   High Performance
      MongoDB shows high availability and scalability.
      it has better query response for indexing and 
      replication

   Replication
     This feature creates the copy of documents into
     different machines. We can have primary node or
     its replicated nodes. When the primary node
     can not work for some reason, then the replicated
     or secondary nodes can take care of it.


   what are the different MongoDB Components?
   MongoDB Components are :-
     1. Documents
     2. Collection
     3. Databases

     Documents in MongoDB
        The documents are the set of key-value pairs. The
        documents have dynamic shcema. So for the documents
        in the same collection may or may not have same set
        of fields.
     
     Collection in MongoDB
        The collections are the set of MongoDB documents. It is like the table of RDBMS. Collection do not enforce a schema. Documents within a collection can have different fields. Typically all documents in a collection are of similar or related purpose
     
     Database in MongoDB
        The Database is the physical collection of containers.
        A single MongoDB server typically has multiple databases.
     
     What is JSON?
       The JSON is Java Script Object Notation. Is a format
       to store and interchange data.

       JSON is user readable and completely language 
       independent

       It is light weight. We can send information through
       JSON very easily.
     
     JSON Document _id
       _id is a 12 bytes hexadecimal number which assures
       the uniqueness of every document.
       We can provide _id while inserting the document.
       If you don't provide then MongoDB provides a unique id 
       for every document

       These 12 bytes has
           - First 4 bytes for the current timestamp
           - Next 3 bytes for machine id
           - Next 2 bytes for process id of MongoDB server
           - Last 3 bytes are simple incremental VALUE
       
       What is BSON
          The BSON is the Binary JavaScript Object Notation

          In MongoDB the use BSON to encrypt the JSON data

          It provides additional datatypes over the JSON data

          It is also language independent and easy to parse
          and generate files from the machine

      What is MongoDB Enterprise
          The MongoDB has two different licences

      1. MongoDB : MongoDB is the basic free version tool.

      2. MongoDB Enterprise : It is under the Commercial license.
         It also have some advanced features.

      MongoDB Enterprise

         Features of MongoDB Enterprise
            1. In the MongoDB Enterprise, the have included Advanced
               Security features, Management tools, Software Integration etc.
            
            2. It also provides the Certification

            3. These features are not availabe on the basic open source 
               MongoDB edition

      How to show all database
          show dbs
        
      How to create database
           In the mongo shell type :
           use <datebase name>
           it will create a new database and use it as current database

      How to show all collections
          show collections
       

      Development Enviroment
         In the MongoDB Development


      


          



        



       




     







